README.md, before:

# Free JSON Datasets

A curated collection of high-quality, free JSON datasets scraped from trusted online sources. Perfect for developers,
data analysts, and enthusiasts building apps, visualizations, or research projects.

All datasets are **hosted on [GitHub Pages](https://sharmadhiraj.github.io/free-json-datasets/)** and can be accessed
directly as an **API server**, ready for integration into your applications.

Please use responsibly and in accordance with **GitHub’s Fair Use Policy** to ensure service availability for everyone.

> **⚠️ Note:**  
> The `datasets` directory contains **deprecated data** that will be removed soon.  
> The project is now **organized by categories**, updated regularly, and hosted on **GitHub Pages**.  
> New and updated datasets are stored in the `docs` folder.

## Dataset Structure

Each dataset follows this JSON format:

```json
{
  "title": "Dataset Name",
  "subtitle": "Brief description or source",
  "updated_at": "UTC time stamp of data scrape, e.g., August 13, 2025 01:29 PM UTC",
  "data": []
}
```

**Note**: The `updated_at` timestamp indicates when the data was scraped, not when it was originally generated.

## Datasets

### Awards & Achievements

- [**Nobel Prizes 2024**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/awards-achievements/nobel_prizes.json)  
  Complete list of Nobel Prizes from 1901 to 2024

### Climate & Weather

- [**Tropical Cyclone Records (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/climate-weather/tropical_cyclone_records.json)  
  Notable Tropical Cyclone Records in 2025
- [**Average Surface Temperature Yearly (1990 - 2022)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/climate-weather/yearly_average_surface_temperature_by_country.json)  
  Average Surface Temperature Yearly 1990 - 2022

### Demographics & Population

- [**Largest Cities by Population (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/demographics-population/largest_cities_by_population.json)  
  City-wise population data for the year 2025
- [**World Population by Country (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/demographics-population/world_population_by_country.json)  
  Latest country-wise population data as of 2025

### Economy & Finance

- [**Forbes Billionaires List**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/economy-finance/forbes_billionaires_list.json)  
  Up-to-date ranking of the world's wealthiest individuals as of August 20, 2025
- [**Global GDP by Country (2023)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/economy-finance/gdp_by_country.json)  
  Nominal GDP (in USD) for all countries in 2023
- [**Inflation Rate by Country (2015–2024)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/economy-finance/list_of_countries_by_inflation_rate.json)  
  Annual inflation rates for each country from 2015 to 2024
- [**NEPSE Listed Companies**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/economy-finance/nepse_listed_companies.json)  
  List of all companies listed on NEPSE with their shares, paid-up value, and sector

### Education & Knowledge

- [**Literacy Rate by Country (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/education-knowledge/literacy_rate_by_country.json)  
  Percentage of adults (15+) who can read and write a simple statement in everyday life, 2025
- [**Global University Rankings 2025**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/education-knowledge/world_university_ranking.json)  
  Comprehensive list of top universities worldwide in 2025

### Geography & Environment

- [**Global CO₂ Emissions by Country (2023)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/geography-environment/co2_emissions_by_country.json)  
  Tonnes, per capita, per GDP, and share of world emissions
- [**World’s Major Deserts by Area (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/geography-environment/largest_deserts_in_the_world.json)  
  List of the largest deserts and their sizes in 2025
- [**Longest Rivers in the World**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/geography-environment/longest_rivers.json)  
  Details of the world's longest rivers, including length, outflow, and countries sharing the basin

### Health & Medicine

- [**Life Expectancy by Country (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/health-medicine/life_expectancy_by_country.json)  
  Average life expectancy of adults worldwide, with breakdown by gender, as reported in 2025.

### Miscellaneous / General Data

- [**ISO 3166 Country Codes**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/misc-general/iso_3166_country_codes.json)  
  Official list of ISO 3166 codes for countries and territories
- [**Most Spoken Languages Worldwide (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/misc-general/most_spoken_languages.json)  
  Comprehensive list of languages ranked by native (L1), second-language (L2), and total speakers as of 2025

### Politics & Governance

- [**Current Heads of State and Government (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/politics-governance/world_leaders_in_office.json)  
  List of countries with their respective leaders as of 2025

### Science & Technology

- [**Periodic Table of Elements with Key Properties**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/science-technology/periodic_table_with_properties.json)  
  Comprehensive dataset of elements including atomic number, weight, electron configuration, melting/boiling points, and other physical & chemical properties
- [**Timeline of Space Exploration (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/science-technology/timeline_of_space_exploration.json)  
  A historical record of space missions and events up to 2025

### Sports & Entertainment

- [**All-Time Summer Olympics Medal Tally (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/sports-entertainment/all_time_olympic_games_medal_tally.json)  
  Updated Medal Tally up to 2025 (Summer Olympics)
- [**FIFA World Cup Finals (1930 - 2026)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/sports-entertainment/fifa_world_cup_finals.json)  
  Complete list of FIFA World Cup finals from 1930 - 2026
- [**IMDb Top 250 Movies**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/sports-entertainment/imdb_top_movies.json)  
  A curated list of the highest-rated films from IMDb's Top 250
- [**Premier League Tables**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/sports-entertainment/premier_league_table_all_seasons.json)  
  Season-by-season league tables from 1992/93 to 2024/2025

### Technology & Internet

- [**Internet Users by Country 2025**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/technology-internet/internet_users_by_country.json)  
  Estimated Internet Users and Usage Percentage by Country (2025)
- [**Social Media Platforms with 100M+ Active Users (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/technology-internet/most_popular_social_platforms.json)  
  Major platforms, their companies, origins, launch years, and active user statistics (2025)
- [**TIOBE Index - Top Programming Languages (August 2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/technology-internet/popular_programming_languages.json)  
  Popularity rankings of programming languages as of August 2025

Commit message:

Add time offset, press freedom index and happiness index data

README.md, after:

# Free JSON Datasets

A curated collection of high-quality, free JSON datasets scraped from trusted online sources. Perfect for developers,
data analysts, and enthusiasts building apps, visualizations, or research projects.

All datasets are **hosted on [GitHub Pages](https://sharmadhiraj.github.io/free-json-datasets/)** and can be accessed
directly as an **API server**, ready for integration into your applications.

Please use responsibly and in accordance with **GitHub’s Fair Use Policy** to ensure service availability for everyone.

> **⚠️ Note:**  
> The `datasets` directory contains **deprecated data** that will be removed soon.  
> The project is now **organized by categories**, updated regularly, and hosted on **GitHub Pages**.  
> New and updated datasets are stored in the `docs` folder.

## Dataset Structure

Each dataset follows this JSON format:

```json
{
  "title": "Dataset Name",
  "subtitle": "Brief description or source",
  "updated_at": "UTC time stamp of data scrape, e.g., August 13, 2025 01:29 PM UTC",
  "data": []
}
```

**Note**: The `updated_at` timestamp indicates when the data was scraped, not when it was originally generated.

## Datasets

### Awards & Achievements

- [**Nobel Prizes 2024**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/awards-achievements/nobel_prizes.json)  
  Complete list of Nobel Prizes from 1901 to 2024

### Climate & Weather

- [**Tropical Cyclone Records (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/climate-weather/tropical_cyclone_records.json)  
  Notable Tropical Cyclone Records in 2025
- [**Average Surface Temperature Yearly (1990 - 2022)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/climate-weather/yearly_average_surface_temperature_by_country.json)  
  Average Surface Temperature Yearly 1990 - 2022

### Demographics & Population

- [**Largest Cities by Population (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/demographics-population/largest_cities_by_population.json)  
  City-wise population data for the year 2025
- [**World Population by Country (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/demographics-population/world_population_by_country.json)  
  Latest country-wise population data as of 2025

### Economy & Finance

- [**Forbes Billionaires List**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/economy-finance/forbes_billionaires_list.json)  
  Up-to-date ranking of the world's wealthiest individuals as of August 20, 2025
- [**Global GDP by Country (2023)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/economy-finance/gdp_by_country.json)  
  Nominal GDP (in USD) for all countries in 2023
- [**Inflation Rate by Country (2015–2024)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/economy-finance/list_of_countries_by_inflation_rate.json)  
  Annual inflation rates for each country from 2015 to 2024
- [**NEPSE Listed Companies**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/economy-finance/nepse_listed_companies.json)  
  List of all companies listed on NEPSE with their shares, paid-up value, and sector

### Education & Knowledge

- [**Literacy Rate by Country (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/education-knowledge/literacy_rate_by_country.json)  
  Percentage of adults (15+) who can read and write a simple statement in everyday life, 2025
- [**Global University Rankings 2025**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/education-knowledge/world_university_ranking.json)  
  Comprehensive list of top universities worldwide in 2025

### Geography & Environment

- [**Global CO₂ Emissions by Country (2023)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/geography-environment/co2_emissions_by_country.json)  
  Tonnes, per capita, per GDP, and share of world emissions
- [**World’s Major Deserts by Area (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/geography-environment/largest_deserts_in_the_world.json)  
  List of the largest deserts and their sizes in 2025
- [**Longest Rivers in the World**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/geography-environment/longest_rivers.json)  
  Details of the world's longest rivers, including length, outflow, and countries sharing the basin

### Health & Medicine

- [**Life Expectancy by Country (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/health-medicine/life_expectancy_by_country.json)  
  Average life expectancy of adults worldwide, with breakdown by gender, as reported in 2025.

### Miscellaneous / General Data

- [**ISO 3166 Country Codes**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/misc-general/iso_3166_country_codes.json)  
  Official list of ISO 3166 codes for countries and territories
- [**Most Spoken Languages Worldwide (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/misc-general/most_spoken_languages.json)  
  Comprehensive list of languages ranked by native (L1), second-language (L2), and total speakers as of 2025
- [**World Time Zones**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/misc-general/world_time_zones_and_utc_offsets.json)  
  Countries and cities organized by UTC offset

### Politics & Governance

- [**Current Heads of State and Government (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/politics-governance/world_leaders_in_office.json)  
  List of countries with their respective leaders as of 2025

### Science & Technology

- [**Periodic Table of Elements with Key Properties**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/science-technology/periodic_table_with_properties.json)  
  Comprehensive dataset of elements including atomic number, weight, electron configuration, melting/boiling points, and other physical & chemical properties
- [**Timeline of Space Exploration (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/science-technology/timeline_of_space_exploration.json)  
  A historical record of space missions and events up to 2025

### Society & Social Issues

- [**World Happiness Report 2024**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/society-social/happiness_index_by_country.json)  
  Country-wise happiness rankings and factors for 2024
- [**Press Freedom Index (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/society-social/press_freedom_index_by_country.json)  
  Global press freedom rankings and scores for the year 2025

### Sports & Entertainment

- [**All-Time Summer Olympics Medal Tally (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/sports-entertainment/all_time_olympic_games_medal_tally.json)  
  Updated Medal Tally up to 2025 (Summer Olympics)
- [**FIFA World Cup Finals (1930 - 2026)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/sports-entertainment/fifa_world_cup_finals.json)  
  Complete list of FIFA World Cup finals from 1930 - 2026
- [**IMDb Top 250 Movies**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/sports-entertainment/imdb_top_movies.json)  
  A curated list of the highest-rated films from IMDb's Top 250
- [**Premier League Tables**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/sports-entertainment/premier_league_table_all_seasons.json)  
  Season-by-season league tables from 1992/93 to 2024/2025

### Technology & Internet

- [**Internet Users by Country 2025**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/technology-internet/internet_users_by_country.json)  
  Estimated Internet Users and Usage Percentage by Country (2025)
- [**Social Media Platforms with 100M+ Active Users (2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/technology-internet/most_popular_social_platforms.json)  
  Major platforms, their companies, origins, launch years, and active user statistics (2025)
- [**TIOBE Index - Top Programming Languages (August 2025)**](https://github.com/sharmadhiraj/free-json-datasets/blob/master/docs/technology-internet/popular_programming_languages.json)  
  Popularity rankings of programming languages as of August 2025
